# Disclaimer

This project is the result of the work or exploration done while doing the following course:

Claude Code - The Practical Guide
https://www.udemy.com/course/claude-code-the-practical-guide/

Attached to this project there's also a simplified cheat sheet

# Claude

## Claude installation

Follow the guide on their page to install claude terminal on your system

https://code.claude.com/docs/en/overview

## Claude Code in Different Terminals

Claude Code is a CLI (Command Line Interface) and thus runs in a terminal.

WHICH terminal is up to you, but the exact usage & keyboard shortcuts will differ, depending on which platform (Windows, macOS, Linux) and terminal you are using.

Therefore, you should consult the official documentation for a complete overview of supported shortcuts and terminal configuration instructions for different terminals / platforms.

For example, entering a line break will be different, depending on which terminal / platform you're using: It may be SHIFT + ENTER or OPTION + ENTER / ALT + ENTER or something else - hence the links above, which list all common platforms / terminals and their shortcuts and "quirks".

## Choosing AI Models

Claude Code offers a broad variety of configuration options and slash commands. You'll, of course, see all crucial commands throughout this course.

One command you should be aware of right from the start is the /model command which let's you choose the AI model you want to use.

Typically, you'll only change this from time to time, if at all. But you should at least initially check that you're working with the AI model you want to use (e.g., "Opus", the most capable AI model offered by Anthropic).

You can also change the model by using the OPTION + P (macOS) / ALT + P (Windows, Linux) shortcut.

## When To Start New Sessions & Making Sense Of Compaction

What happens if you run out of space (i.e., the conversation gets too long - which can easily happen since code files evaluated or code generated by Claude Code also take up valuable tokens)?

In this case, Claude Code will compact the conversation: It will generate a summary of the conversation, including some instructions (for itself) on how to proceed once the compaction process is over. So it won't stop working or anything like that - BUT some details from the conversation will get lost.

You can also trigger compaction manually via the /compact command (e.g., if you know that you're about to ask for a task that will require lots of free space in the context window).

Since compaction WILL lead to loss of information, it's typically a good idea to keep sessions concise and focused. When working on a new feature, you want to use a new session (by starting a new Claude Code instance in a new terminal window, or via the /clear command).

The same is true when getting stuck: If Claude Code can't fix a certain bug or just won't implement a feature the way you want it to, it's often better to try again in a new session, with a cleared context window.

## Quickly run Claude prompts

To quickly run a prompt just type:

```sh
claude "My prompt"
```

You can even run it in the background by adding the option -p to the command

## Resume to an old session

If you want to continue the old session you can basically run either /resume and pick the old session you want or in the terminal do:

```sh
claude -c
```

## Switch Claude Modes

To switch between Claude modes you can press SHIFT + TAB to quickly shift the mode in the claude terminal

## Claude settings

https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings#available-settings

## Using Claude Code in a Docker Sandbox

To run claude in a closed and safer sandbox use the following command:

```sh
docker sandbox run claude
```

Attention: This will run Claude in the Bypass Permissions mode since it won't affect your system. But you can still change that the same way.

## Using Claude Code in an alternative Sandbox

If you don't have docker or don't want to run it in docker for some reason, you can also use it's own sandbox mode with the command:

```sh
/sandbox
```

## Rewinding your session

Claude offers two options to rewind the changes made. Of course, if you are using a version control like git you can simply revert changes, but if you want to revert using claude you can either press ESC key twice to open a rewind window or type the following command:

```sh
/rewind
```

## Re-context

To make sure a new claude session knows the project it's working you can do:

```
/init
```

This will create a CLAUDE.md. This file should be created in any claude project you are doing because it will automatically be loaded into any new context in the project. This file will have any rules or specifications claude has to consider like for example if you are using npm, bun or pnpm

You can create multiple CLAUDE.md files and spread them in each folder if you want to have a specific set of instructions or rules for each folder of your project

### CLAUDE.md vs "Auto Memory"

Recent versions of Claude Code support two different ways of managing general information, instructions & memory:

    CLAUDE.MD files (see previous lectures)

    Auto Memory

#### CLAUDE.MD

CLAUDE.MD files are maintained by YOU. You put crucial, general information and instructions you want to provide to Claude Code for every (!) session into this file.

You should keep the file focused and concise to avoid cluttering session context with unnecessary information or instructions (which would consume limited context window space and could lead to worse model performance).

#### Auto Memory

Since version 2.1.59, Claude Code has an additional, kind of related, feature called "Auto Memory".

This feature is also about saving information & instructions and loading them into every new session. But "Auto Memory", as the name suggests, is about Claude Code autonomously storing important information or instructions. So for this kind of memory, it's not you, it's Claude Code.

Claude Code does store that information in MEMORY.MD files in a global ~/.claude/projects/<project>/memory/ path. In addition to this MEMORY.MD file, Claude Code may also create topic-specific memory files in that path (per project).

Claude loads parts (the first 200 lines of the MEMORY.MD file) of the memory for every new conversation and the entire memory files for every new session. It's configured / "taught" to keep those memory files concise (for the same reason as the CLAUDE.MD files mentioned above).

The idea behind this "Auto Memory" feature is simply that you don't have to think about everything you want Claude Code to "remember". Instead it tries to learn from your instructions. Chances are, for example, that it would store information / instructions related to an error it made, which you maybe called out multiple times. Or about a certain code style you corrected it to use.

You can disable / enable and configure this "Auto Memory" feature via the /memory command inside of Claude Code. This command also allows you to browse and edit the memory files belonging to your project (if any exist).

"Auto Memory" therefore isn't a replacement for a customized CLAUDE.MD file, instead you can think of it as an additional help which could lead to better results. If you know about a certain piece of information or about a specific instruction you want Claude Code to follow in all your sessions, you of course shouldn't hope for it to memorize it => Instead put it into CLAUDE.MD yourself!

## Breaking line in your prompt

To break line and write multiple lines in your prompt do "\ + Enter"

## Refer to files in your prompt

To refer to a specific file in your prompt use the @ symbol followed by the file or path to file

## Prompt & Context Engineering Recommendation

As explained, writing good prompts and providing helpful context is essential for achieving good results.

Therefore, here are some recommendations / best practices you should consider.

---

## Concise & Precise

Keep your prompts concise and focused. Don't overdo, you should, of course, accurately and clearly describe the task you want the AI to tackle. But absolutely avoid including details that don't matter or unnecessary fluff.

---

## No Unnecessary Context

Providing useful (!) context is crucial. But providing context that actually doesn't matter can be counterproductive.

For example, avoid referencing (@some-file) a file you THINK may matter. Focus on pointing at files you KNOW matter.

The same is, of course, true for documentation articles or any other kind of information that's not really relevant => Avoid it!

---

## Think, Plan, Prompt

When working with AI, you may be tempted to just start typing and then "fix stuff over time". Don't do that!

Think first, then make a plan, then write a good prompt. If you find yourself asking for follow-ups or providing clarifications a lot, consider putting more effort into upfront planning. Even when using "Plan" mode (which you should use for all tasks that aren't super trivial).

---

## Don't "Test" The AI

If you know that a task will need the AI to overcome a certain challenge, or if you know about particularly challenging part involved by a task, DON'T hide that information from the AI.

Sure, it can be a nice feeling to see the AI struggle and fail, but if you want to get the job done, share all crucial information with the AI agent.

So, for example, if you know about a particular pitfall or common mistake, include it (AND a recommended solution) in your initial prompt.

---

## Explicitly Tell The AI About Tools It Should Use

AI agents like Claude Code can use many tools - some built-in (like the "bash" tool, web requests etc.) and some provided via MCP servers (covered later in the course). There also are features like "subagents" or "skills" you can leverage (also covered later).

If you know that a certain tool or feature should be used for a (part of a) task - explicitly tell the AI to do so. Don't hope it automatically uses the right tool or feature just because it theoretically could.

---

## Using MCP Servers

MCP or Model Context Protocol is a standard to connect AI applications to external systems. There's a big list of MCP Servers that you can give to Claude Code to have access to more information.

More information about what MCP's are here: https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro
List of available MCP Servers for Claude here: https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/agents-and-tools/remote-mcp-servers

One specific MCP Server that is usually very usefull is the context7 MCP server. This MCP server gives claude code easier access to documentation on libraries. This makes easier for Claude Code to actually respect the rules of a library and not require the user to give the context manually

Here's the link to the MCP server page: https://context7.com/docs/overview
The link to it's server: https://mcp.context7.com/mcp
And the link to it's Github: https://github.com/upstash/context7#installation

Or maybe this command still works:

```sh
claude mcp add context7 --scope user -- npx -y @upstash/context7-mcp
```

## Creating SubAgents

To create your own SubAgent in the .claude folder create a folder that must be named agents.
Each agent must be a md file with the following header:

```md
---
name: MyCoolAgent
description: Quick description of what the agent should be used for. Use words like specialist
tools: Tools to use from the list of tools: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/settings#tools-available-to-claude
model: Model to be used 
---
```

The subagent name must match the agent md file name.

## Agent Skills

This is a open standard to multiple supported by other AI's. They are used to define extra, dynamically loaded, context. For example React Components Best Practices
To setup and use this you will need a SKILL.md file and if necessary there can be extra files and folders for references, scripts or assets

This follow a similar configuration to Agents. But in this case each skill must be a folder inside a skills folder with a name all in lowercase with no spaces.
Inside this folder you require a SKILL.md file with the following header:

```md
---
name: must-match-the-skill-folder-name
description: Quick description of what the skill should be used for. Use words that the AI can use to search this skill
---
```

A complete guide on skills can be found here: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills

## Enhancing Skills

You learned how you can add custom skills.

If you find that your custom skills are not getting used by Claude Code, try tweaking the description of the skill - because, as explained, it's the title + description that's exposed to Claude Code and that therefore is important for its "automatic discoverability".

You can try adding extra instructions like "Use this skill to optimize React components and check for the usage of common best practices" or "Gets triggered when writing ANY kind of CSS code".

If you DON'T want automatic invocation (i.e., if you want to use skills as custom commands only), you can add disable-model-invocation: true to the skill metadata (i.e., next to title and description). If you want the opposite (i.e., ONLY automatic discoverability, NO user invocation) you can add user-invocable: false.

You can also restrict which tools Claude Code may use when triggering this skill - via the allowed-tools metadata. For example, adding allowed-tools: Read allows Claude Code to read files but prevents it from editing or creating. You find a list of available tools here.

If your skill should work with extra input (e.g., when building it as a custom command), you can use the special $ARGUMENTS placeholder in your skill content.

For example, you could build a specialized code-review skill like this:

.claude/skills/code-review/SKILL.md:

    ---
    name: code-review
    description: Review code for bugs, security or performance issues. Use this skill when asked to perform code reviews or after finishing major tasks or after refactoring code.
    allowed-tools: Read
    description: Perform a code-review
    ---

    MODE: $ARGUMENTS

    If Mode is one of the following, adjust the review as described:

    - MODE == BUGS: Focus ONLY on logical or other bugs.
    - MODE == SECURITY: Focus ONLY on security issues.
    - MODE = PERFORMANCE: Focus ONLY performance issues.

    MODE can also be set to a combination like "BUGS,SECURITY" etc => Perform the combined review in that case.

    If MODE is set to anything else or nothing at all, perform a thorough, general code review.

    Perform an in-depth code review of the entire codebase.

    Carefully and thoroughly explore the codebase file-by-file to find potential issues and improvements.

    Don't rush it, instead make sure you fully understand the code structure and architecture.

    Create a detailed report of all your findings.

You'll also see a different way of creating custom commands later in the course.

---

## Adding Third-Party Skills

Building custom skills is a powerful ability, because it allows you to really tailor your Claude Code experience & behavior to your specific (project) requirements and preferences.

But you can also add third-party skills - of course also in addition to your custom skills.

A popular and growing (free!) public skills repository is skills.sh.

There, you find a broad selection of skills you can add to your project. You can install skills from that repository into your project via npx skills add <owner/repo> (requires Node.js to be installed on your system, since npx is a tool installed together with Node.js).

Of course, you can and should explore those skills you installed. You can tweak them or remove selected parts of the skills.
